
Name: Abhishek sherekar                         
Student id: 200240320002



Q1. What are the types of cloud ?
1.Public Cloud
 Public cloud is open to all to store and access information via the Internet using the pay-per-usage method.
 In public cloud, computing resources are managed and operated by the Cloud Service Provider (CSP).
 Eg: Amazon elastic compute cloud (EC2), IBM SmartCloud Enterprise, Microsoft, Google App Engine, Windows Azure Services Platform.

2. Private Cloud
 Private cloud is also known as an internal cloud or corporate cloud. 
 It is used by organizations to build and manage their own data centers internally or by the third party. 
 It can be deployed using Opensource tools such as Openstack and Eucalyptus.
 Eg: Relaince Jio

3. Hybrid Cloud
 Hybrid Cloud is a combination of the public cloud and the private cloud. we can say:
 Hybrid Cloud = Public Cloud + Private Cloud
 Hybrid cloud is partially secure because the services which are running on the public cloud can be accessed by anyone, while the services which are running on a private cloud can be accessed only by the organization's users.
 Eg: Google Application Suite (Gmail, Google Apps, and Google Drive), Office  
     365 (MS Office on the Web and One Drive), Amazon Web Services.



Q2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of cloud ?

ADVANTAGES:
1) Back-up and restore data
2) Improved collaboration
3) Excellent accessibility
4) Low maintenance cost
5) Mobility
6) IServices in the pay-per-use model
7) Unlimited storage capacity
8) Data security

DISADVANTAGES:
1) Internet Connectivity
2) Vendor lock-in
3) Limited Control
4) Security


Q3. What is Cloud ?
	"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers. 
Cloud servers are located in data centers all over the world. 
By using cloud computing, users and companies don't have to manage physical servers themselves or run software applications on their own machines.
The cloud enables users to access the same files and applications from almost any device, because the computing and storage takes place on servers in a data center, instead of locally on the user device.
For businesses, switching to cloud computing removes some IT costs and overhead: for instance, they no longer need to update and maintain their own servers, as the cloud vendor they are using will do that. 
This especially makes an impact for small businesses that may not have been able to afford their own internal infrastructure but can outsource their infrastructure needs affordably via the cloud. 
The cloud can also make it easier for companies to operate internationally, because employees and customers can access the same files and applications from any location.




Q4. What is EC-2 ?
 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) is a part of Amazon.com's cloud-computing platform, Amazon Web Services (AWS), that allows users to rent virtual computers on which to run their own computer applications. 
 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. 
 It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. 
 Amazon EC2's simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction.

Q5. What is the difference between server and EC-2 ?
 EC2 is a hosted cloud-based machine while server  is related to the storage services. 
 So, both are essential services and in case you are using EC2 then there are chances that you will also need server going further.
 EC2 is majorly used for hosting websites and web applications over cloud.














